all the way from Los Altos Hills
California mr. Henry Evans
[Applause]
hello my name is Henry Evans and until
August 29th 2002 I was living my version
of the American Dream I grew up in a
typical American town near st. Louis my
dad was a lawyer my mom was a homemaker
my six siblings and I were hip kids but
caused our fair share of trouble after
high school I left home to study and
learn more about the world I went to
Notre Dame University and graduated with
degrees in accounting and German
including spending a year of study in
Austria later on I earned an MBA at
Stanford I married my high school
sweetheart Jane I am lucky to have her
together we raised four wonderful
children I were think studied hard to
move up the career ladder eventually
becoming a chief financial officer in
Silicon Valley a job I really enjoyed my
family and I bought our first and only
home on December 13th 2001 a fixer-upper
in a beautiful spot of Los Altos Hills
California from where I am speaking to
you now we were looking forward to
rebuilding it but eight months after we
moved in I suffered a stroke like a tack
caused by a birth defect overnight I
became a mute quadriplegic at the ripe
old age of 40 it took me several years
but with the help of an incredibly
supportive family I finally decided life
was still worth living
I became fascinated with using
technology to help the severely disabled
head tracking devices sold commercially
by the company mod n tech converted my
tiny head movements into her sir
movements and enables my use of a
regular computer I can surf the web
exchange email with people and routinely
destroying my friend Steve cousins and
online word games this technology allows
me to remain engaged mentally active and
feel like I am a part of the world one
day I was lying in bed watching CNN when
I was amazed by Professor Charlie Kemp
of the healthcare robotics lab at
Georgia Tech demonstrating a pr2 robot
by email charlie and steve cousins of
Willow Garage and we formed the robots
for the humanity project for about two
years
robots for the humanity developed ways
for me to use the pr2 as my body
surrogate I shaved myself for the first
time in 10 years from my home in
California I shaved Charlie in Atlanta I
handed out Halloween candy I opened my
refrigerator on my own
I began doing tasks around the house I
saw new and previously unthinkable
possibilities to give and contribute
both for myself and others in my
circumstance all of us have disabilities
in one form or another for example if
either of us wants to post 60 miles an
hour both of us will need an assistive
device called a car your disability
doesn't make you any less of a person
and neither does mine by the way check
out my sweet ride since birth we have
both suffered from the inability to fly
on my own
last year college and CEO of Willow
Garage connected me with chant Jenkins
Chad showed me how easy it is to
purchase and fly aerial drones it was
then I realized that I could also use an
aerial drone to expand the worlds of
bedridden people through flight giving a
sense of movement and control that is
incredible
using a mouse cursor I control with my
head these web interfaces allow me to
see video from the robot and send
control commands by pressing buttons in
a web browser with a little practice I
became good enough with this interface
to drive around my home on my own
I could look around my garden and see
the grapes we are growing
I inspected the solar panels on the roof
one of my challenges as a pilot is to
land the drone on our basketball hoop
I went even further by seeing if I could
use a head mounted display the oculus
rift as modified by fighting Wallis to
have an immersive experience controlling
the drone
with Chen's group at Brown by regularly
fly drones around his lab several times
a week from my home 3,000 miles away all
work and no fun makes for a dull
quadriplegic
so we also find the time to play
friendly games of robot soccer I never
thought I would be able to casually move
around the campus like brown on my own
I just wish I could afford their tuition
Henry all joking aside I bet all of
these people here would love to see you
fly this drone from your bed in
California 3,000 miles away
[Applause]
okay Henry
have you been to DC lately are you
excited to be a TEDx mid-atlantic can
you show us how excited you are alright
Big Finish can you show us how good of a
pilot you are all right we still have a
little ways to go with that but it but I
think it shows the promise um what makes
Henry's story amazing is it's about
understanding Henry's needs
understanding what what people in Henry
situation need from technology and then
also understanding what advanced
technology can provide and then bringing
those two things together for youth in a
wise and responsible way what we're
trying to do is democratize robotics so
that anybody can be a part of this we're
providing affordable off-the-shelf robot
platforms such as the AR Drone $300 the
suitable technologies beam only $17,000
along with open source robotic software
so that you can be a part of what we're
trying to do and our hope is is that by
providing these tools that you'll be
able to think of better ways to provide
movement for the disabled to provide
care for our aging population to help
better educate our children to think
about what the new what the new types of
middle-class jobs could be for the
future to both monitor and protect our
environment and to explore the universe
back to you Henry Thank You Chad with
this drone setup we show the potential
for bedridden people to once again be
able to explore the outside world and
robotics will eventually provide a level
playing field where one is only limited
by their mental acuity and imagination
where the disabled are able to perform
the
same activities as everyone else and
perhaps better and technology will even
allow us to provide an outlet for many
people who are presently considered
vegetables 100 years ago by it would
have been treated like a vegetable
actually that's not true by it would
have died it is up to us all of us to
decide how robotics will be used for
good or for evil for simply replacing
people or for making people better for
allowing us to do and enjoy more are a
goal for robotics is to unlock
everyone's mental power by making the
world more physically accessible to
people such as myself and others like me
around the globe with the help of people
like you we can make this dream a
reality thank you
[Applause]
you